docs/bluegreen.md, before:

Blue/Green deployment runs two stacks side-by-side: one live, one idle. You
deploy to the idle stack, test it, and when ready, swap roles — giving
near-zero downtime and easy rollback.

![Blue/Green](assets/bluegreen.png)

## 1. Adjust the Compose file

### Remove exposed ports

Remove the `caddy` service's `ports:` section in `compose.yaml`.

We'll no longer expose ports in the stacks, instead a simple "front proxy" will
sit in front of the two stacks, proxying to the active stack.

### Serve HTTP-only in the stacks

Set `CADDY_SITE_ADDRESS` to only `:80`, removing `:443` (leaving TLS
termination to the front proxy):

```yaml title="compose.yaml"
caddy:
  environment:
    CADDY_SITE_ADDRESS: :80
```

### Set the Caddy container name explicitly

This allows us to switch between the two stacks:

```yaml title="compose.yaml"
caddy:
  container_name: ${STACK_NAME}_caddy
```

### Move Postgres to its own unique container

Running two separate PostgreSQL instances and having them both simultaneously
access the same data directory within that shared volume is not recommended and
can lead to data corruption.

So we need to move Postgres out of the compose file and start it separately.

### Share volumes between the stacks

To share data between the two stacks (uploads, etc.), give volumes explicit
names:

```yaml title="compose.yaml"
volumes:
  user_data:
    name: user-data
```

## 3. Bring up two Stacks

Deploying is the same as [before](deploying.md), but now we're deploying the
_idle stack_. For this example, `green` is idle so that's the one we're
deploying.

Create `blue` and `green` directories on the server and copy `compose.yaml`
into the idle stack's directory:

```sh
scp compose.yaml youruser@yourserver:green/compose.yaml
```

Shell into the server and bring up the idle stack:

```sh
cd green
docker compose pull
docker compose up -d
```

Docker will use the directory name `green` as the project name, creating
different containers, volumes and networks than the `blue` stack.

## 3. Add a Front Proxy

The _front proxy_ is a single container that binds ports `80` and `443` on the
server and routes requests into either the Blue or Green stack.

On the server, create a simple `Caddyfile`:

```caddyfile title="caddy/Caddyfile"
api.myapp.com {
  reverse_proxy blue_caddy:80
}
```

Optionally, point a second hostname to the idle stack for testing.

The front proxy manages TLS, so give it a persistent volume for certificates:

```sh
docker volume create caddy_data
```

Start the proxy, attaching it to both networks – this requires both stacks to
be up first, so the networks exist:

```sh
docker run -d \
  --name front-proxy \
  -p 80:80 -p 443:443 \
  -v ./caddy:/etc/caddy \
  -v caddy_data:/data \
  --network blue_default \
  --network green_default \
  caddy:2
```

## 4. Upgrading

## Flip traffic

Point traffic to the `green` stack:

```caddyfile title="Caddyfile"
api.myapp.com {
  reverse_proxy green_caddy:80
}
```

Reload the front proxy's config:

```sh
docker exec front-proxy caddy reload
```

Cutover is instant. Green is now live, and Blue is the idle stack.

And rollback is simple: flip the `Caddyfile` back and `caddy reload` again.

## Github Actions

Here's a workflow for B/G deploys:

<details>
<summary>Click to expand</summary>

```yaml title=".github/workflows/ci.yaml"
name: Deploy

on:
  push:
    branches:
      - main

jobs:
  deploy:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout code
        uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - name: Start SSH agent
        uses: webfactory/ssh-agent@v0.9.0
        with:
          ssh-private-key: ${{ secrets.VPS_SSH_KEY }}

      - name: Get the idle stack
        id: idle
        run: |
          ACTIVE=$(ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no \
            ${{ secrets.VPS_USER }}@${{ secrets.VPS_HOST }} \
            'cat active_stack 2>/dev/null || echo blue')

          if [ "$ACTIVE" = "blue" ]; then
            echo "IDLE=green" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT
          else
            echo "IDLE=blue" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT
          fi
          echo "ACTIVE=$ACTIVE" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT

      - name: Copy compose.yaml to idle stack
        uses: appleboy/scp-action@master
        with:
          host: ${{ secrets.VPS_HOST }}
          username: ${{ secrets.VPS_USER }}
          port: 22
          key: ${{ secrets.VPS_SSH_KEY }}
          source: "compose.yaml"
          target: "${{ steps.idle.outputs.IDLE }}/"

      - name: Deploy idle stack
        uses: appleboy/ssh-action@v1.0.3
        with:
          host: ${{ secrets.VPS_HOST }}
          username: ${{ secrets.VPS_USER }}
          key: ${{ secrets.VPS_SSH_KEY }}
          envs: GHCR_PAT
          script: |
            set -euo pipefail
            echo "${{ steps.idle.outputs.ACTIVE }}" > active_stack
            cd ${{ steps.idle.outputs.IDLE }}
            echo "$GHCR_PAT" | docker login ghcr.io -u "${{ github.actor }}" --password-stdin
            DOCKER_CLIENT_TIMEOUT=300 COMPOSE_HTTP_TIMEOUT=300 docker compose pull -q
            STACK_NAME=${{ steps.idle.outputs.IDLE }} docker compose up -d
        env:
          GHCR_PAT: ${{ secrets.GHCR_PAT }}
```

If you want to auto-flip between blue and green, add this extra task:

```yaml
- name: Flip traffic
  uses: appleboy/ssh-action@v1.0.3
  with:
    host: ${{ secrets.VPS_HOST }}
    username: ${{ secrets.VPS_USER }}
    key: ${{ secrets.VPS_SSH_KEY }}
    script: |
      if [ "${{ steps.idle.outputs.IDLE }}" = "blue" ]; then
        sed -i 's/green_caddy/blue_caddy/g' caddy/Caddyfile
      else
        sed -i 's/blue_caddy/green_caddy/g' caddy/Caddyfile
      fi
      docker exec front-proxy caddy reload --config /etc/caddy/Caddyfile
      echo "${{ steps.idle.outputs.IDLE }}" > active_stack
```

</details>

Commit message:

Add a networks section to bluegreen

docs/bluegreen.md, after:

Blue/Green deployment runs two stacks side-by-side: one live, one idle. You
deploy to the idle stack, test it, and when ready, swap roles — giving
near-zero downtime and easy rollback.

![Blue/Green](assets/bluegreen.png)

## Network

We'll have a few concerns:

1. A blue stack
2. A green stack
3. A front proxy
4. Postgres

Create a network to link them:

```sh
docker network create myapp
```

And add it to the Compose file:

```yaml title="compose.yaml"
networks:
  default:
    name: myapp
    external: true
```

## 1. Adjust the Compose file

### Remove exposed ports

Remove the `caddy` service's `ports:` section in `compose.yaml`.

We'll no longer expose ports in the stacks, instead the front proxy will sit in
front of the two stacks, proxying to them.

### Serve HTTP-only in the stacks

Set `CADDY_SITE_ADDRESS` to only `:80`, removing `:443` (leaving TLS
termination to the front proxy):

```yaml title="compose.yaml"
caddy:
  environment:
    CADDY_SITE_ADDRESS: :80
```

### Set the Caddy container name explicitly

This allows us to switch between the two stacks:

```yaml title="compose.yaml"
caddy:
  container_name: ${STACK_NAME}_caddy
```

### Move Postgres to its own unique container

Running two separate PostgreSQL instances and having them both simultaneously
access the same data directory within that shared volume is not recommended and
can lead to data corruption.

So we need to move Postgres out of the compose file and start it separately.

### Share volumes between the stacks

To share data between the two stacks (uploads, etc.), give volumes explicit
names:

```yaml title="compose.yaml"
volumes:
  user_data:
    name: user-data
```

## 3. Bring up two Stacks

Deploying is the same as [before](deploying.md), but now we're deploying the
_idle stack_. For this example, `green` is idle so that's the one we're
deploying.

Create `blue` and `green` directories on the server and copy `compose.yaml`
into the idle stack's directory:

```sh
scp compose.yaml youruser@yourserver:green/compose.yaml
```

Shell into the server and bring up the idle stack:

```sh
cd green
docker compose pull
docker compose up -d
```

Docker will use the directory name `green` as the project name, creating
different containers, volumes and networks than the `blue` stack.

## 3. Add a Front Proxy

The _front proxy_ is a single container that binds ports `80` and `443` on the
server and routes requests into either the Blue or Green stack.

On the server, create a simple `Caddyfile`:

```caddyfile title="caddy/Caddyfile"
api.myapp.com {
  reverse_proxy blue_caddy:80
}
```

Optionally, point a second hostname to the idle stack for testing.

The front proxy manages TLS, so give it a persistent volume for certificates:

```sh
docker volume create caddy_data
```

Start the proxy, attaching it to both networks – this requires both stacks to
be up first, so the networks exist:

```sh
docker run -d \
  --name front-proxy \
  -p 80:80 -p 443:443 \
  -v ./caddy:/etc/caddy \
  -v caddy_data:/data \
  --network blue_default \
  --network green_default \
  caddy:2
```

## 4. Upgrading

## Flip traffic

Point traffic to the `green` stack:

```caddyfile title="Caddyfile"
api.myapp.com {
  reverse_proxy green_caddy:80
}
```

Reload the front proxy's config:

```sh
docker exec front-proxy caddy reload
```

Cutover is instant. Green is now live, and Blue is the idle stack.

And rollback is simple: flip the `Caddyfile` back and `caddy reload` again.

## Github Actions

Here's a workflow for B/G deploys:

<details>
<summary>Click to expand</summary>

```yaml title=".github/workflows/ci.yaml"
name: Deploy

on:
  push:
    branches:
      - main

jobs:
  deploy:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout code
        uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - name: Start SSH agent
        uses: webfactory/ssh-agent@v0.9.0
        with:
          ssh-private-key: ${{ secrets.VPS_SSH_KEY }}

      - name: Get the idle stack
        id: idle
        run: |
          ACTIVE=$(ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no \
            ${{ secrets.VPS_USER }}@${{ secrets.VPS_HOST }} \
            'cat active_stack 2>/dev/null || echo blue')

          if [ "$ACTIVE" = "blue" ]; then
            echo "IDLE=green" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT
          else
            echo "IDLE=blue" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT
          fi
          echo "ACTIVE=$ACTIVE" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT

      - name: Copy compose.yaml to idle stack
        uses: appleboy/scp-action@master
        with:
          host: ${{ secrets.VPS_HOST }}
          username: ${{ secrets.VPS_USER }}
          port: 22
          key: ${{ secrets.VPS_SSH_KEY }}
          source: "compose.yaml"
          target: "${{ steps.idle.outputs.IDLE }}/"

      - name: Deploy idle stack
        uses: appleboy/ssh-action@v1.0.3
        with:
          host: ${{ secrets.VPS_HOST }}
          username: ${{ secrets.VPS_USER }}
          key: ${{ secrets.VPS_SSH_KEY }}
          envs: GHCR_PAT
          script: |
            set -euo pipefail
            echo "${{ steps.idle.outputs.ACTIVE }}" > active_stack
            cd ${{ steps.idle.outputs.IDLE }}
            echo "$GHCR_PAT" | docker login ghcr.io -u "${{ github.actor }}" --password-stdin
            DOCKER_CLIENT_TIMEOUT=300 COMPOSE_HTTP_TIMEOUT=300 docker compose pull -q
            STACK_NAME=${{ steps.idle.outputs.IDLE }} docker compose up -d
        env:
          GHCR_PAT: ${{ secrets.GHCR_PAT }}
```

If you want to auto-flip between blue and green, add this extra task:

```yaml
- name: Flip traffic
  uses: appleboy/ssh-action@v1.0.3
  with:
    host: ${{ secrets.VPS_HOST }}
    username: ${{ secrets.VPS_USER }}
    key: ${{ secrets.VPS_SSH_KEY }}
    script: |
      if [ "${{ steps.idle.outputs.IDLE }}" = "blue" ]; then
        sed -i 's/green_caddy/blue_caddy/g' caddy/Caddyfile
      else
        sed -i 's/blue_caddy/green_caddy/g' caddy/Caddyfile
      fi
      docker exec front-proxy caddy reload --config /etc/caddy/Caddyfile
      echo "${{ steps.idle.outputs.IDLE }}" > active_stack
```

</details>
